By our assessment we have once again reached stage 5: Working well from our previous assignment where we were at stage 3: In Use. We were in stage 5 previously, for the first assignment, at it was clear for everybody what was happening and what needed to be done. As the complexity of the assignments increased, we regressed, first to stage 4: In place, for the second assignment, and as mentioned previously, stage 3 for the third assignment. As we have gotten more diligent with planning the assignments, we have had fewer issues and higher productivity. For example, we spend much more time selecting a repository for this assignment than for the last assignment, this resulted in higher productivity as the number of issues encountered was decreased.

As we feel we are currently working well, there is no real obstacles for us to reach the next stage which is stage 6: Retired. Perhaps one obstacle could be that we are not finished with the assignment at the point of writing this.

Arguing about the benefits, drawbacks, and limitations of our work in the context of the SEMAT kernel, we can discuss the Work alpha. One drawback is that besides the repository owner and the one that made the issue, which can be seen as stakeholders, we also have the teachers and assistants grading our work. This includes additional tasks which is not directly beneficial to the other stakeholders. In this sense, the additional tasks we need to perform is detrimental for the open source contribution we are supposed to perform. One benefit of the additional tasks we need to perform is that they force us to better understand the requirements, which in turn is beneficial for the Work alpha. A limitation we have is the deadline. If we encounter delays, this might cause the work not to be finished, which to some extent is fine for the course stakeholders but not for the repo stakeholders, but also vice versa. We could focus on the work pertaining to the fix, or work pertaining to the assignment, but as we have more to lose on missing the expectations of our course stakeholders, inherently it is the repo stakeholders that will be negatively affected.